Day 3 - Basic Linux Commands (part 2)



Task: What is the linux command to

To view what's written in a file.

To change the access permissions of files.

To check which commands you have run till now.

To remove a directory/ Folder.

To create a fruits.txt file and to view the content.

Add content in devops.txt (One in each line) - Apple, Mango, Banana, Cherry, Kiwi, Orange, Guava.

Show only the top three fruits from the file.

Show only the bottom three fruits from the file.

To create another file Colors.txt and to view the content.

Add content in Colors.txt (One in each line) - Red, Pink, White, Black, Blue, Orange, Purple, and Grey.

To find the difference between fruits.txt and Colors.txt file.

Solution-
1.) To view what's written in a file

The Linux command to view what's written in a file is cat. The syntax is:



cat [options] filename


2.) To change the access permissions of files

The Linux command to change the access permissions of files is chmod. It stands for "change mode". The syntax for the chmod command is:



chmod [options] mode file


3.) To check which commands you have run till now.

The Linux command to check which commands you have run till now is the history command.

To view the last command you ran, type history -1.

To view the first command you ran, type history -n 1.

To view all the commands you ran today, type history | grepdate``.

To delete the last command you ran, type history -d 1.

To delete all the commands you ran today, type history -ddate``.

4.) To remove a directory/ Folder.
There are two commands in Linux to remove a directory/folder:

rmdir : This command is used to remove an empty directory. The directory must be empty, i.e., it cannot contain any files or subdirectories.

rm -r : This command is used to remove a directory and all of its contents, including files and subdirectories.

For example, to remove the directory my_directory, you would use the following command:



rmdir my_directory
To remove the directory my_directory and all of its contents, you would use the following command:



rm -r my_directory


5.) To create a fruits.txt file and to view the content.

Sure, here are the Linux commands to create a fruits.txt file and to view its content:

To create a fruits.txt file:



touch fruits.txt
The touch command creates an empty file with the specified name. In this case, the file name is fruits.txt.

To view the content of the fruits.txt file:



cat fruits.txt


The cat command displays the contents of a file. In this case, the file is fruits.txt.

6.) Add content in devops.txt (One in each line) - Apple, Mango, Banana, Cherry, Kiwi, Orange, Guava.

Sure, here is the Linux command to add content in devops.txt (one in each line) - Apple, Mango, Banana, Cherry, Kiwi, Orange, and Guava:



The echo command is used to print text to the console. The >> symbol is used to append the output of the echo command to the end of the file.

7.) Show only the top three fruits from the file.

you can use the head command to show only the top three fruits from the file. The syntax is:



head -n 3 devops.txt
The -n flag specifies the number of lines to display.



8.) Show only the bottom three fruits from the file.

you can use the tail command to show only the bottom three fruits from the file. The syntax is:



tail -n 3 devops.txt


9.) To create another file Colors.txt and to view the content.

you can create another file called Colors.txt and view its contents using the following commands:



touch Colors.txt
cat Colors.txt


The touch command creates a new file if it does not exist. The cat command displays the contents of a file.

10.) Add content in Colors.txt (One in each line) - Red, Pink, White, Black, Blue, Orange, Purple, and Grey.

you can add the following content to the file Colors.txt (one in each line) - Red, Pink, White, Black, Blue, Orange, Purple, and Grey:





11.) To find the difference between fruits.txt and Colors.txt file.

you can use the diff command to find the difference between the files fruits.txt and Colors.txt. The syntax is:



diff fruits.txt Colors.txt


The diff command will compare the contents of the two files and display any differences between them. If there are no differences, the command will produce no output.